[MUSIC]
>> Scott Moss: All right let's
make it a little more interesting,
let's make it a little more dynamic.
Let's have it only change color on hover.
Yes, we could do this in pure CSS,
don't be a smarty pants,
[LAUGH] we're going to do
it with the directive.
So what we can do is we can use this
host property on the directive.
So the way host works, the reason it's
called host is because it's referring to
the host element that this attribute
is on, that's why it's called host.
So it has nothing to do
with like shadow dom or
anything like that, it's the element
that this attribute is hosted on.
So what we can do is we can set up events.
And host is an object that
takes the syntax like this.
So the key is the event on the host
element that we want to bind to.
So we want to bind to
the mouse enter event.
Just like you would write it in
a template surrounded by parentheses.
So that's the key.
And then the value is the function
of the method that we want to call.
In this case we'll just say color.
So when the mouse insert event
is triggered on the host
of this attribute,
we want to execute the color method.
Everybody see that?
When this event is triggered on the host
of this attribute we want to execute
this method, all right?
So now we need to make that method,
so we'll just take that out.
We still need to keep
this ElementRef here,
although we're not gonna use
the constructor anymore.
If we got rid of this we won't
have access to ElementRef.
So we still need to keep that constructor
there, and initialize that metadata.
So now we can say color and
it's just gonna do that.
>> Scott Moss: So let's check that out,
let's see what happens.
>> Scott Moss: So it's white, that's
perfect, we hover over it, it goes red.
>> Speaker 2: Ship it.
Ship it's done.
>> Scott Moss: [LAUGH] So
let's make it go back to what it was.
So now we'll just say
Mouseleave, go back.
Default or color [LAUGH]
color false or something,
I don't know, color two.
[LAUGH] Color2.
That'll work.
Why not?
>> Scott Moss: And
we'll just toggle back white there.
>> Scott Moss: There we go.
So, any questions so far about this?
Well, now let's set up
like a default color,
that we can put, that's optional,
that the template author can pass in.
So, as you've learned,
we can use input for this.
And just like on a component there's
two ways you can use the inputs.
We can use the inputs here.
>> Scott Moss: Or we can use inputs
the way that Lukas showed you guys,
which was-
>> Speaker 2: Is there a preferred way?
>> Scott Moss: So from my experience, if
you read the source code, most of the code
is written, most of the directives that
they've built are written like this.
But, most of the documentation
wants you to use it the other way.
>> Speaker 2: That's why I
was wondering if there's a,
kind of a rule that defines why you
would use one versus the other.
>> Scott Moss: I think it's more
explicit if you use the decorators.
I think it's just more explicit, because
even though you define the inputs and
outputs here, you still have to do the
setters, getters, and initializers down
here anyway, so you might as well
just put them all in one place.
That's the way I think about it.
>> Speaker 3: Is there
any difference otherwise?
>> Scott Moss: No, there's no difference.
>> Scott Moss: So,
we're just gonna use the decorators.
So now, we'll just do it inputs.
Oops, input on default,
or, that's just so long,
I want to put default color.
I guess I will, default color and
it'll be a string.
>> Scott Moss: And its default color will
be,
>> Scott Moss: Red.
>> Scott Moss: All right, so now that we
have that, we can actually use this input
on the same host element that
this directive is hosted onto.
So because we made it input
we can grab this name here.
Actually, you know what, I don't really
like this name, so I'm gonna use an alias.
So this is a good opportunity
to just grab an alias.
So we can type in a different name
here as an alias for the input,
that's gonna be different than how we
reference it here in the constructor.
So this alias is how we will
reference it in the template, and
then this name is how we
would reference it here.
So I don't want to type this in on my
template because I think it's too long,
but it's fine here, so I'm gonna call
it something else in the template like.
>> Speaker 4: [CROSSTALK]
>> Scott Moss: [LAUGH] [CROSSTALK] I know.
We'll call it start.
Yeah, dc, dc, dc,
I like that, we'll do that.
Good catch.
[LAUGH] A little dc, okay,
cool, so we'll do that.
And then now, if we add an HTML,
where is it at?
Where did I put it?
>> Speaker 4: Better.
What I'm saying.
[INAUDIBLE]
>> Scott Moss: Wait, where's it at?
>> Speaker 4: Angular 2.
>> Scott Moss: There it is, okay, sorry.
Too many yellows.
Okay, so there we have that, and
then now I can say, dc.
And then I can pass in a default
color which would be orange.
>> Speaker 5: So could you have a color
as the color [INAUDIBLE] orange?
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, we can do that too.
So if we don't wanna set
up a new attribute and
we just want color to be an attribute,
let's do that.
We'll do that and then we'll say orange.
And then what we'll do is we'll
come back to our directive and
then now what we'll do is we'll say,
we'll just change the reference or
the alias to be colorer.
But we'll still reference
this default color in here.
>> Scott Moss: So now,
what we do is when we go back
we'll save this dot default color.
>> Scott Moss: Oops, wrong one.
>> Scott Moss: [COUGH] So let's go
check that out, see how that works.
>> Scott Moss: Blue looks like
something didn't go back.
>> Scott Moss: Colorer, default color.
Let's see what that is.
Go to a console.LR.
>> Scott Moss: Undefined.
>> Speaker 6: Log in
>> Scott Moss: Yeah,
[CROSSTALK] wrong thing, thank you.
>> Scott Moss: That's undefined too,
interesting.
Let's just.
>> Scott Moss: Not do the alias, and say,
>> Scott Moss: colorer.
>> Speaker 6: [INAUDIBLE] [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 5: [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 6: Make the component
[INAUDIBLE]
>> Scott Moss: With it with the raw stream
in there, I wonder if it's
expecting a model, like that.
>> Speaker 7: Yeah I think you do.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah that was it.
There we go.
All right so we got that, inputs so
and then you can imagine it pretty
much goes on and on and on from there
as far as with active directors.
There are other things in here like
properties where you can set up bindings
from different inputs directly to
properties on the host element,
like one for one.
I wanna set an attribute called tooltip
that binds to the text property.
Yeah, you can do it yourself
inside of here, but
the properties will do it for you.
Documentation there is
kinda lacking though, so.